README.md, before:

# Therapeutic Education  
### A New Format of Learning for Children Who Cannot Enter Standard Instruction

<img width="800" height="500" alt="Therapeutic Education" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5e1c6dd3-6072-4858-9ac1-51174c53230c" />

Therapeutic Education (TE) is a pedagogical approach that reshapes the format of learning so it does not exceed the nervous system of the learner. It does not treat trauma, diagnose conditions, or replace therapy. TE simply lowers the symbolic and emotional load of instructional tasks so participation becomes possible again for children who withdraw, avoid, or shut down under standard demands.

In TE, the child is not adapted to the system.  
The system adapts to the child.

---

## What TE Changes

TE does not change curriculum or lower expectations.  
It changes the **entry design** of learning: pacing, symbolic density, performance pressure, and emotional exposure.

A child who cannot complete a task is not asked to try harder.  
The task is reshaped into a format they can tolerate.

This is not gamification, not incentivization, and not entertainment.  
It is cognitive access through safe instructional design.

---

## First Implementation: Helpica

[Helpica](https://helpica.me) is the first digital environment experimenting with TE principles. It transforms standard school assignments into smaller, calmer, slower, and more breathable steps, without reducing meaning or content.

Helpica is:
- non-clinical
- non-diagnostic
- non-therapeutic
- research-phase only

Its purpose is not to “heal,” but to allow participation without overload.

---

## Research Direction (Validation Stage)

Therapeutic Education is currently entering formal validation through academic collaboration. The goal is to measure outcomes in:

- sustained participation
- avoidance reduction
- symbolic tolerance
- emotional load tolerance

No clinical claims are made.  
No medical outcomes are pursued.

TE is educational access, not treatment.

---

## Why This Matters

Many children retreat not because they lack interest, ability, or support, but because instructional environments outpace their nervous systems. Escapism, shutdown, and avoidance are not failures of discipline. They are nervous system thresholds.

TE offers a design alternative: learning that does not require endurance to begin.

---

## Current Status

- Early-stage implementation
- Prototype testing only
- Not for therapeutic use
- Not for large-scale release
- Not a replacement for clinical care

A formal academic call will follow once IRB/ethics alignment and design protocols are complete.

---

## Contact

**Initiator:** Maksym Dudyk  
**LinkedIn:** https://linkedin.com/in/maksym-dudyk-follow-up  
**Email:** maksymdudyk@gmail.com  

---

<sub>Therapeutic Education Framework Developed by Maksym Dudyk, 2025</sub>

<sub>This framework is openly shared to support vulnerable children through improved educational practices.
Researchers and practitioners are encouraged to explore, test, and collaborate.</sub>

Commit message:

Rename Helpica to PlayTellect in README

README.md, after:

# Therapeutic Education  
### A New Format of Learning for Children Who Cannot Enter Standard Instruction

<img width="800" height="500" alt="Therapeutic Education" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5e1c6dd3-6072-4858-9ac1-51174c53230c" />

Therapeutic Education (TE) is a pedagogical approach that reshapes the format of learning so it does not exceed the nervous system of the learner. It does not treat trauma, diagnose conditions, or replace therapy. TE simply lowers the symbolic and emotional load of instructional tasks so participation becomes possible again for children who withdraw, avoid, or shut down under standard demands.

In TE, the child is not adapted to the system.  
The system adapts to the child.

---

## What TE Changes

TE does not change curriculum or lower expectations.  
It changes the **entry design** of learning: pacing, symbolic density, performance pressure, and emotional exposure.

A child who cannot complete a task is not asked to try harder.  
The task is reshaped into a format they can tolerate.

This is not gamification, not incentivization, and not entertainment.  
It is cognitive access through safe instructional design.

---

## First Implementation: PlayTellect

[PlayTellect](https://helpica.me) is the first digital environment experimenting with TE principles. It transforms standard school assignments into smaller, calmer, slower, and more breathable steps, without reducing meaning or content.

PlayTellect is:
- non-clinical
- non-diagnostic
- non-therapeutic
- research-phase only

Its purpose is not to “heal,” but to allow participation without overload.

---

## Research Direction (Validation Stage)

Therapeutic Education is currently entering formal validation through academic collaboration. The goal is to measure outcomes in:

- sustained participation
- avoidance reduction
- symbolic tolerance
- emotional load tolerance

No clinical claims are made.  
No medical outcomes are pursued.

TE is educational access, not treatment.

---

## Why This Matters

Many children retreat not because they lack interest, ability, or support, but because instructional environments outpace their nervous systems. Escapism, shutdown, and avoidance are not failures of discipline. They are nervous system thresholds.

TE offers a design alternative: learning that does not require endurance to begin.

---

## Current Status

- Early-stage implementation
- Prototype testing only
- Not for therapeutic use
- Not for large-scale release
- Not a replacement for clinical care

A formal academic call will follow once IRB/ethics alignment and design protocols are complete.

---

## Contact

**Initiator:** Maksym Dudyk  
**LinkedIn:** https://linkedin.com/in/maksym-dudyk-follow-up  
**Email:** maksymdudyk@gmail.com  

---

<sub>Therapeutic Education Framework Developed by Maksym Dudyk, 2025</sub>

<sub>This framework is openly shared to support vulnerable children through improved educational practices.
Researchers and practitioners are encouraged to explore, test, and collaborate.</sub>
